Black Mamba(venomous)
The black mamba (Dendroaspis polylepis) is an extremely venomous snake of the family Elapidae, and native to parts of sub-Saharan Africa.
First described by Albert Günther in 1864, it is the longest species of venomous snake indigenous to the African continent;
 mature specimens generally exceed 2 meters (6.6 ft) and commonly attain 3 meters (10 ft).
 Specimens of 4.3 to 4.5 meters (14.1 to 14.8 ft) have been reported.
 The black mamba eats a variety of prey including small birds and mammals primarily.
  It has been known to eat small chickens, bats, and bushbabies (a type of small nocturnal primate native to Africa)
 Its skin colour varies from grey to dark brown.
 A bite can cause paralysis and caue immediate death
 
 Juvenile black mambas tend to be paler than adults and darken with age.
 When the males and females are done mating, they go back to their homes. In two to three months the females will lay 6-17 eggs, which will hatch in 2-3 months.
  Black mambas do not interact with each other besides mating.
 Description
 The black mamba is a long, slender, cylindrical snake with a "coffin-shaped" head and a somewhat pronounced brow ridge and a medium-sized eye.
 The adult snake's length typically ranges from 2–3 m (6 ft 7 in–9 ft 10 in) but specimens have grown to lengths of 4.3 to 4.5 m (14.1 to 14.8 ft).
  It is the second longest venomous snake species, exceeded in length only by the king cobra.[16] The black mamba is a proteroglyphous snake, with fangs up to 6.5 mm (0.26 in) in length.[17] located at the front of the maxilla.[16] The tail of the species is long and thin, and is 17–25% of its body length.[14] Black mambas weigh about 1.6 kg (3.5 lb) on average.[18]

Specimens vary considerably in color; some may be olive, yellowish-brown, khaki or gunmetal, but are rarely black.
 Some individuals may a have a purplish glow to their scales.
  Occasionally they may display dark mottling towards the posterior, which may appear in the form of diagonal crossbands. They have greyish-white underbellies while the inside of the mouth is dark bluish-grey to nearly black. Mamba eyes are greyish brown to shades of black while the pupil is surrounded by silvery white or yellow color.
  Juvenile snakes are lighter in color than adults, typically grey or olive green in appearance, and get darker as they age.
  

The black mamba inhabits savannah, woodlands, rocky slopes and, in some regions, dense forest. The black mamba is both terrestrial and arboreal. It is diurnal and is known to prey on hyrax, bushbabies and other small mammals, as well as birds. Over suitable surfaces, it is possibly the fastest species of snake, capable of at least 11 km/h (6.8 mph) over short distances. Adult mambas have few natural predators.

In a threat display, the mamba usually opens its inky-black mouth, spreads its narrow neck-flap and sometimes hisses. It is capable of striking at considerable range and may occasionally deliver a series of bites in rapid succession. Its venom is primarily composed of potent neurotoxins that may cause a fast onset of symptoms. Despite its reputation as formidable and highly aggressive, it usually attempts to flee from humans unless threatened or cornered. The black mamba is rated as least concern on the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN)'s Red List of Endangered species. 
 
This snake is usually found in Africa.
A single bite contains enough venom to kill ten people (Just ten? You’re still thinking about that sea snake, aren’t you).
It can travel as fast as 20 km/h, which makes it the fastest snake on the planet.
The Black Mamba will bite a number of times when it attacks, and if the bite is not treated,
it is almost always going to result in death.
